MAIN IDEA
The Holy Spirit gives us gifts with
which to serve the church in her
mission.
QUESTION TO EXPLORE
What are my spiritual gifts and how
am I using them to serve the church
in her mission?
TEACHING AIM
To lead adults to identify or affirm
their spiritual gifts and discover
ways to use them to serve the church

Bible Comments
Understanding the Context
In the past, I asked people if they could identify their spiritual gifts. Some-
times, individuals were reluctant to answer because they did not know.
Others were unwilling to respond to avoid the perception of boasting. (Most
often, it is better to demonstrate the gifts than it is to talk about them.)
I have occasionally encountered people who believe their spiritual gifts
are superior to those of others. In some cases, individuals used (or some-
times misused) those gifts, if indeed they were gifts from the Lord.
The church at Corinth had troubles. Immorality, an unloving spirit, legal
issues between members, abuse of spiritual freedom, and jealousy were ram-
pant. Paul addressed the problem of jealousy as it related to spiritual gifts.
The ability to speak in tongues, a highly noticeable gift, was apparently cov-
eted. For some, it served as a sign of true spirituality. Some misused the gift
for self-elevation and in other inappropriate ways.
Problems accompanied this attitude. For Paul, the ability to speak in
tongues was not the highest gift. If anything, it was the least. Second, misuse
of the gift confused those within the church, as well as outsiders interested
in the church. Third, it belied the real purpose of speaking in tongues, that
of serving Christ and the church. Fourth, the jealousy that surrounded the
use of this gift threatened the life of the church. In chapters 12–14, Paul
offered a correct understanding of the receipt, use, and purpose of spiritual
gifts. 1
Interpreting the Scriptures
The Source of Our Gifts (12:4–6)
12:4–6. Paul did not use the word Trinity, but he referenced the Spirit, the
Lord (Jesus), and God. He made clear the Lord is the origin of any authen-
tic spiritual gift, not the product of one’s making or the result of super
spirituality.100 
UNIT THREE: NEW TESTAMENT EXAMPLES
“Varieties,” in each of these verses, suggest diversity and quantity. There
are many different spiritual gifts. In 1 Corinthians 12, Romans 12:6–8, and
Ephesians 4:1–16, Paul named some of these gifts. These are representative
samples and not exhaustive lists of the gifts God gives for service.
There are other gifts. For example, our church has gifted musicians who
have taken their God-given gifts and honed their skills. Every week, the
members of our congregation are recipients of blessings from God through
the gifts of these musicians. They offer their gifts to the glory of God and
the service of the congregation.
Paul used three core words in these verses: gifts, ministries, and effects.
Perhaps the first notes the source. The second refers to what they make pos-
sible. The third says something about the power or the result of the gifts.
In The Gifts of the Spirit, J.W. MacGorman offers an excellent description of
these differences. 2
Most important is to recognize spiritual gifts come from the Lord, given
for his people (the church) to do the work of the church.
The Purpose of the Gifts (12:7–11)
12:7. The Spirit gives the gifts “for the common good.” Some of the Corin-
thians were misusing the gifts. They apparently wanted to make themselves
look good. However, these were gifts of service to be devoted to the service
of God.
We serve God by serving others. These gifts are just as important today
as they were in Paul’s time. The more people know and put into service the
gifts of the Spirit, the more efficient the work of the church.
12:8–10. Specific gifts appear in these three verses. In reading and apply-
ing the meaning of each gift, it is important to discern how they serve the
common good in the church.
The phrase “word of wisdom” points to an understanding of the purpose
of God in Christ. Wisdom, in Scripture, helps one know how to apply truth
to life. Knowledge suggests insight and learning that helps one communicate
the truth, which builds up the church. As a beneficiary of a Baptist univer-
sity and seminary education, I profited from professors who had these gifts.Lesson 9: Serving Through Our Giftedness
101
Raymond Bryan Brown observed, “It is striking that, first of all, Paul men-
tions gifts that involve the mind, not the emotions.” 3
The faith described in verse 9 is different from saving faith. It points
to faith that enables one to do extraordinary things for the Lord. Gifts of
healing are what they appear to be. They were evident in Jesus’ ministry and
other New Testament personalities. One doubts Paul would have considered
legitimate the so-called “faith healers” we see today. Miracles were similar
gifts. They, too, were messianic signs that noted the coming of the kingdom
of God.
Prophecy likely refers to the effective proclamation of the gospel; less
so to predicting or interpreting the future. The distinguishing of spirits ref-
erences discernment, which is a gift of extraordinary usefulness given the
proliferation of today’s social media.
Next, Paul introduced “various kinds of tongues” and the “interpretation
of tongues.” These descriptions referred to ecstatic speech, which seemed to
have value to the individual but was not helpful to the church, unless there
was appropriate interpretation. In large measure, Paul limited the use and
usefulness of tongues in chapters 12–14. There is no convincing reason to
believe or teach that this gift is a special sign of the presence of the Holy
Spirit or a greater depth of spirituality.
12:11. This verse governs how we understand the gifts of the Spirit. First,
they are from the Spirit, and because they are the Spirit’s gifts, we should use
them in service to the Lord and to his church.
Second, the Spirit decides to whom the gifts go. We believe the Spirit
gives a gift(s) to every believer. It is inappropriate for a believer to covet
the gifts of others. Rather, each believer should use the gifts he or she has
received in service to the Lord.
The Gifts Inspire Unity (12:12–13)
12:12. A body is not merely a set of parts; it is a whole. What affects any
part of the body impacts the whole. Different body parts have different func-
tions. In verse 14 and following, Paul illustrated this via the picture of the
human body.102 
UNIT THREE: NEW TESTAMENT EXAMPLES
12:13. In 1 Corinthians 1:13 Paul asked, “Has Christ been divided?” The
implied answer was, “Of course not.” When an individual becomes a believer,
the Spirit makes one a part of the body. Paul may have alluded to the univer-
sal church, but that church finds expression in the work and makeup of the
local church. The Spirit draws people to Christ, and as we receive the Spirit
(drink of one Spirit), he makes us a part of Christ’s body.
The unity of the body in serving the purpose of Christ is evident. The
spiritual gifts serve the purpose of the body.
An Example of Gifts and their Administration (12:27–31)
12:27–28. As a believer and local church member, I am part of the body of
Christ. When we have received gift(s) from the Spirit, we use those gifts in
service to the body. We also realize God intends to guide the individuals who
are gifted in the various areas of service.
Churches are, to a greater and lesser extent, adept at helping people dis-
cover their gifts and serve in areas appropriate to those gifts. It is a pursuit
the church would do well to continue and to improve.
12:29–30. The Spirit is the giver of the gifts; it is the Spirit’s prerogative to
give the gifts to whom he will. Paul also said, “you (presumably the church)
are not lacking in any gift,” (1 Cor. 1:7). Therefore, in the church, all of us
who are part of that one body have a different gift(s) from the Spirit to offer
in service to the Lord and his church.
12:31. To “earnestly desire the greater gifts” does not mean to be jealous of
others or covet their gifts. It means to have an earnest desire to possess and
use the gifts that are of greatest service to the church. The conclusion of this
verse is a transition to Paul’s exposition of how the gifts are used, and how
the body functions in the greatest way—through love.
Focusing on the Meaning
Profound theology emanates from Paul’s letter to the most troubled
of churches—the church at Corinth. Early in the letter, Paul identifiedLesson 9: Serving Through Our Giftedness
103
divisions that wracked the church: jealousy, strife, and a party spirit. Later,
he identified grave immorality in the church. He was openly critical of their
ungenerous and unloving spirits in dealing with one another.
The church at Corinth was torn from within. Selfishness, sin, jealousy,
and division all threatened its existence. Of all things, even the spiritual
gifts were a source of conflict. Paul sought to correct this conflict in two
ways that are relevant to the contemporary church. First, he reminded the
Corinthian church that spiritual gifts were gifts. The people neither earned
nor deserved them. And, just as some components of the human body are
more visually presentable, the hidden parts are equally, if not more, impor-
tant to the welfare of the individual.
Second, Paul showed the gifts are given for the good of the church and
in service to the Lord. The gifts believers have received from the Spirit are to
serve others—not to elevate themselves or their empires. A wise pastor once
told me, “The church is bigger than one person.” He meant the church is not
all about the pastor or any one person; it belongs to Jesus. When we render
active, focused service through the church, we are serving the Lord.
Perhaps the litmus test for churches is to consider how to help people
know, understand, and apply the gifts of God. The Lord wants more than
warm bodies in places of service. He wants people who are willing, who are
gifted by his Spirit, and who care.UNIT THREE: NEW TESTAMENT EXAMPLES
104 
Teaching Plans
DISCOVERY PLAN
Connect with Life
1. Before class time, place a one-dollar bill inside a box. In a different sized
box, enclose a five-dollar bill. Put a ten-dollar bill in a third box. Wrap
each box in different paper. As class members enter the room, encour-
age them to participate in a silent auction by writing down on a bid
sheet (previously created), how much they would pay for the content
of each gift. To encourage everyone to bid on at least one item, explain
that the proceeds from the bidding will go to a mission’s fund. After the
bidding concludes, award the three highest bidders their gifts.
Ask auction participants, Why did you bid on a particular gift? Ask the
auction winners, How did you feel when you won the bid for your gift? How
did you feel when you opened your gift? Ask the others, How did it feel when
you didn’t win the item you wanted? Say, God has given every believer at least
one spiritual gift to be used to build up the body of Christ.
Guide Bible Study
2. Group class members into two debate teams. Assign the “Pro-team” this
argument: God can use an individual in an area of service in the local church
even if he or she does not have the spiritual gift for that field. Assign the
“Con-team” this argument: God cannot use an individual in an area of ser-
vice in the local church if they do not have the spiritual gift associated with
that area. Encourage the teams to use the “Focal Text” passage of this
week’s Study Guide to help prepare their arguments. Allow the teams
time to prepare their cases, then give each side two minutes to state
their case and one minute to rebut the other team’s arguments. After
the debate, work with the class to identify key truths about spiritual
gifts.
3. Keep the class in two groups. Assign group one the Study Guide section
“The Holy Spirit Endows the Church,” along with 1 Corinthians 12:4–6.Lesson 9: Serving Through Our Giftedness
105
Assign group two the Study Guide section “The Purpose of God ’s
Endowments,” along with 1 Corinthians 12:7–11. As the Bible study
leader, take the third section in the Study Guide, “The Church: The Body
of Christ,” and 1 Corinthians 12:12–13, 27–31. Direct each group to
write a brief news report on the content of their section and assigned
Scripture. After a few minutes, recruit someone from each team to read
their news report to the class.
4. Point out that, along with 1 Corinthians 12:4–13, 27–31, two other
passages of Scripture address spiritual gifts, Romans 12:3–8 and
Ephesians 4:11–13. Direct the teams to read the passages of Scripture
and write the designated gifts on provided index cards (one gift per
card). Play a game of charades using the gifts listed on the cards.
Alternate teams between acting and guessing the gift being portrayed.
At the conclusion of the game, ask, Are their other spiritual gifts? Why do
you think these, too, are spiritual gifts?
Encourage Application
5. Before the session, develop a written list of five groups of “Would You
Rather?” questions that relate to the practice of spiritual gifts. Try to
develop questions that represent as many different spiritual gifts as
possible or ones that highlight ministries in your church. (Examples:
Would you rather speak to a large audience or teach a small group Bible
study? Would you rather direct a backyard Bible club on an international
mission trip or serve homeless families at a nearby soup kitchen?) Give each
class member a copy of the “Would You Rather” questions. Allow a few
moments for them to review the questions, and then ask volunteers to
explain the reasoning behind their choices.
Say, God often equips people with a passion for their giftedness. Chal-
lenge each class member to develop a list of his or her top-three possible
spiritual gifts. Encourage everyone to look for opportunities to practice
their gifts and support the spiritual gifts of others. Close in prayer.106 
UNIT THREE: NEW TESTAMENT EXAMPLES
DISCUSSION PLAN
Connect with Life
1. Before the session begins, choose several sports (or organizations) that
require teamwork and list their respective team positions (or jobs) on
the whiteboard. After class members arrive, direct them to identify the
essential responsibilities of each role listed to contribute to team suc-
cess. Say, Each of us has responsibilities and assignments to help ensure the
body of Christ is functioning well.
Guide Bible Study
2. Before class time, recruit a person to research the ancient city of Corinth
and the New Testament church at Corinth, emphasizing the issue of
spiritual gifts in the Corinthian church. After the individual reports on
their research, utilize the Study Guide section “The Church in Corinth”
to guide further discussion. Say, The church in Corinth was not living up to
its full potential; it was divided in many ways and needed to unify to impact
the region for Christ.
3. Before class time, write the following scrambled words on the
whiteboard.
TGIFS (Greek word charisma) = GIFTS
VRIECSE (Greek word diakonia) = SERVICE
GWKIONR (Greek word energema) = WORKING
Ask someone to read 1 Corinthians 12:4–6 aloud. Encourage class mem-
bers to unscramble the three terms you wrote on the board, terms Paul
used to describe what God has given to his church. Briefly define each of
these terms, noting that we get the English words charismatic, deacon,
and energy from the Greek terms. Say, God gives these gifts to believers
according to his divine sovereignty.
Enlist a volunteer to read 1 Corinthians 12:7–11 aloud. Direct class
members to identify and describe the manifestations of the Spirit (12:7)
and the wide variety of gifts listed in the passage (12:8–10). Say, This listLesson 9: Serving Through Our Giftedness
107
was not intended to be exhaustive. Paul was communicating that God gives
every believer at least one spiritual gift for the common good of the church.
Recruit another volunteer to read 1 Corinthians 12:12–13, 27–31
aloud. Ask class members, Why did Paul use the imagery of a physical body
to illustrate his point? What did Paul mean when he used the word “ bap-
tized”? Utilize Study Guide content to guide the discussion.
4. Post the following four principles about spiritual gifts (taken from
Spiritual Gifts Analysis by Paul Basden and Lee Johnson) 4 on the wall or
show them on a PowerPoint® slide:
• Universality—Every believer has at least one spiritual gift. No one is
the exception.
• Humility—No believer has every spiritual gift. No Christian is
“omni-gifted.”
• Diversity—Believers have different spiritual gifts from one another.
We are all unique.
• Sovereignty—Believers receive spiritual gifts according to the
sovereign will of Christ’s Spirit. God distributes gifts according to
his wisdom.
Encourage volunteers to share their thoughts on each of the four
principles.
Encourage Application
5. Ask, Can you identify the spiritual gifts of our church staff? After a few
responses, direct attention to the “Questions” section of the Study Guide
and provide a few minutes for class members to contemplate them
silently.
6. Encourage class members to take time in the upcoming week to work
through the Study Guide sidebar “Discover Your Spiritual Gift.” Also,
challenge them to affirm the spiritual gifts they see in others.