# Romans 3.21-31

Paul explains why Christ's coming means good news for needy, sinful people.

Paul detoured from his theme justification by faith to show why God's intervention was needed.

> For in it (the gospel) the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. | Romans 1.17

## 21-22a. Righteousness of God by Faith

> 21 But now apart from the Law the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets, 

> 22 even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe; for there is no distinction; 

**but now**. contrasts the situation in the time period before Christ with the situation that now exists after his coming

- Christ's coming announces a decisive shift in salvation history

**righteousness of God**. a definite process by which God acts to put people in right relationship with himself.

**through faith**. God's righteousness is available to all who put their faith in Jesus Christ.

> 23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 

> 24 being justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus; 

> 25 whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in His blood through faith. This was to demonstrate His righteousness, because in the forbearance of God He passed over the sins previously committed; 

> 26 for the demonstration, I say, of His righteousness at the present time, that He might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. 

## 27-30. Boasting is excluded

> 27 Where then is boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of faith. 

> 28 For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the Law. 29 Or is God the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, 

> 30 since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one.

## 31. Is the Law nothing?

> 31 Do we then nullify the Law through faith? May it never be! On the contrary, we establish the Law.