# Romans 3.21-31

Paul explains why Christ's coming means good news for needy, sinful people.

Paul detoured from his theme justification by faith to show why God's intervention was needed.

> For in it (the gospel) the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. | Romans 1.17

## 21-22a. Righteousness of God by Faith

> 21 But now apart from the Law the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets, 

**but now**. contrasts the situation in the time period before Christ with the situation that now exists after his coming

- Christ's coming announces a decisive shift in salvation history—plan unfolds in stages

**apart from…witnessed by**. there is both discontinuity and continuity in God's plan of salvation.

- discontinuity—God reveals his righteousness apart from the Law of Moses
- continuity—the OT testifies to this new work of God in Christ—no afterthought
- it has been God's intention from the beginning to reveal his saving righteousness by sending His Son as a sacrifice for us

**righteousness of God**. a definite process by which God acts to put people in right relationship with himself.

> 22 even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe; for there is no distinction; 

**through faith**. God's righteousness is available to all who put their faith in Jesus Christ.

- Alternate translation is faith *of* Jesus Christ—subjective genitive—faith exercised by
- appears to be attractive translation because it removes what seems to be needless repetition
- THEN—our salvation comes about because of Christ's faith to the task God gave him to do as well as from our faith in him
- Typical translation—objective genitive—righteousness activated *only* for those who believe, but also for *all* those who believe.

**no distinction**. no basic difference; especially between Jew & Gentile

> 23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 

**glory of God**. doxa. God's own awesome presence; but also describes the eternal destiny of believers

- Adam lost the glory of being like God at the time of the Fall
- What the first Adam lost, the second Adam will restore.

> 24 being justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus; 

Paul emphasized that God's justifying work is available through faith. Now two more points…

- We are justified by means of God's grace and on the basis of his redemptive work in Jesus.

**grace**. *charis*. all that God does on our behalf is done freely and without compulsion.

**redemption**. **apolytrosis**. to liberate by paying a price; related to ransom

- refers to the way in which people could pay money to buy the freedom of slaves

*Exactly how is God able to redeem people in Christ?* 

*And, why did he do it in this way?*

> 25 whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in His blood through faith. This was to demonstrate His righteousness, because in the forbearance of God He passed over the sins previously committed; 

> 26 for the demonstration, I say, of His righteousness at the present time, that He might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. 

The means of redemption was Christ's sacrificial death.

**propitiation**. sacrifice of atonement; various means by which the wrath of gods could be turned away

- expiation (Dodd). wiping away or forgiving of sins; no allusion to wrath included.
- frequently refers to mercy seat—cover for ark where sacrificial blood was sprinkled
- Christ in his sacrifice on the cross, is now the place where God takes care of his people's sin

**demonstration**. God had to redeem people through the costly giving of his own Son to demonstrate his justice

- in His patience, God previously passed over sins that must be punished—acting against his character—which requires that he respond to sin with wrath.

### Reflection

Scripture uses metaphors to help us understand theological truths. 

- 

Some potential dangers…

- we may misunderstand because we fail to recognize differences between biblical and modern concepts
- we may unfairly elevate one metaphor over another >> justification, reconciliation, adoption, or sanctification
- we can misuse the analogies to take them further than the Bible does

## 27-30. Boasting is excluded

> 27 Where then is boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of faith. 

> 28 For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the Law. 29 Or is God the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, 

> 30 since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one.

## 31. Is the Law nothing?

> 31 Do we then nullify the Law through faith? May it never be! On the contrary, we establish the Law.