Fitzhugh Class (@NAME)

This week we will begin a study on the Book of Romans. 

*Martin Luther called this letter “the chief part of the New Testament.” He declared every Christian should “occupy himself with it every day, as the daily bread of the soul. It can never be read or pondered too much, and the more it is dealt with the more precious it becomes, and the better it tastes.”*

I hope it will be a meaningful study for you. 

### Study Guides

Last week, I neglected to hand out the personal study guides. I've been convicted that I haven't provided you with these materials in the past. So I repent. From now on I will make sure you have something to use during the week so that you can focus daily on God's Word. Also, I know that some of you are still taking care to protect your family. I have no issues with this, and so I have attached a digital discipleship guide. This will allow you to study on your own keep connected with the class. In addition, if you feel like a zoom option would be helpful to you I'm open to work on that. 

### Room Change

We will make a room change again. I am sorry for the back and forth. If you haven't been back yet, don't worry, we are going back to our original room. It's been a challenge to maintain social distancing, but I appreciate how flexible everyone has been. 

So this week we will move back to E301 (the room we have met in for thousands of years).

### Fellowship

No Breakfast this week, but Angie would like to plan for this on Sunday, November 1. 

We will have a church-wide picnic at Fullerton-Garrity Park following the 11:00 am service on November 15. I hope you will attend.

### Birthdays

We have several birthdays this month, so wish these folks a happy birthday.

12 [Melody Brown](mailto:RNflute@yahoo.com)

13 [Kari Richter](mailto:pooterpeanut@hotmail.com)

22 [Lesley Keltner](mailto:lkeltner67@gmail.com)

23 [Julie Jewell](mailto:thats.sew.julie2019@gmail.com)

30 [Brian Jewell](mailto:brianjewell71@yahoo.com)

### Resources

Finally, here are some resources that might be helpful to you as you study Romans.

[Interlinear for Romans 1](https://biblehub.com/interlinear/romans/1.htm) 

[New Living Translation for Romans 1](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Romans+1.1-17&version=NLT)

[NET Bible for Romans 1](https://netbible.org/bible/Romans+1)

[Studies in Romans by the Navigators](https://navigators.org.nz/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/Romans-Ch-1-5.pdf)