While we are a church fully committed to our Gospel mandate, we’re also a significant corporation with a number of unusual elements on the business side.  To that end, if these questions seem “business heavy”, that’s by design.  While we are blessed to have a wonderful financial services director and office and a fully qualified comptroller (a CPA who volunteers for us), we want someone in this role who loves Jesus, people AND who has a head for leading church life from a business perspective. 

1. Tell us about your conversion, your family and your current faith walk.
At the age of nine while attending a revival, I surrendered my life to Jesus Christ. I remember having a deep conviction of sin as I sat listening to the message. My need for a personal Savior become clear and over the course of several nights, I was introduced to the love Christ had for me. I was overwhelmed by this love and desired to accept the offer of mercy and grace presented. A wonderful minister connected with me and for many years, he invested in my life. During my teenage years, I felt a call to serve but really wasn't sure what God wanted me to do. I didn't feel called to pastor, but felt that I should be serving. I enrolled in seminary and God just began to provide opportunities. It was during seminary that I married my wife, Angie. She has been a great support and companion to me for over 23 years. We are blessed to have three children: a daughter who is currently studying for a communications degree at Dallas Baptist University and two sons who are respectively in 9th and 7th grades. In recent years, my wife's parents came to live with us and they also have been such a great blessing to our family. we have been blessed to have had the support of my wife's parents who have lived with us for the past seven years. 
I continue to grow in my faith and walk with Christ as I try to develop my prayer life and serving Christ with the gifts, passions and talents that he has given to me. I find myself more deeply in love and committed to my wife each day. She has been a wonderful companion and support in my ministry and to our family. Having the gifts of service and administration, I find great fulfillment working with others to meet the needs of those who are hurting and isolated. I seek to use the resources God has blessed me with to help others. Both Angie and I also feel led to support and encourage couples struggling in marriage. 

2. Describe your involvement level of financial matters.
Currently, I work with the Finance Committee to develop and formulate financial policies, exercising supervision and guidance in the implementation of these polices. I review and present monthly financial reports to our Financial Committee. I supervising all banking and accounting functions of the church. I oversee the use of church issued credit cards. I oversee all expenditures of the church, exercising budgetary control and maintaining an adequate cash flow. I review payroll making sure necessary tax records and benefits records are filed and kept. Serves as a resource and advisor to organizations in all financial matters. to assure continuing effective stewardship toward helping the church fulfill its mission.

3. Describe your personnel management style.
I strive to make the team effective. I am cooperative by nature and enjoy identifying, supporting and encouraging the strengths of others. When people work together there is a better chance of mutual benefit. I listen and respect the viewpoints of others, trying to be aware that in many cases I can learn something from them. I recognize that God gives each of us gifts, passions, skills, personalities, and experiences. I love helping people find their place and succeed in their responsibilities. I try to find solutions by matching skills to needs. In correction, I try to be truthful and loving, always wanting to honor the value that God has given to each individual. I recognize that it is only by grace that any of us is able to perform our duties with any level of competence. 

4. What is your general view of policies and procedures? A burden or a tool? 
I find policies and procedures to be very helpful. They provide good boundaries and path ways. It is important to review often so that they are practical. The only thing worse than not having policies and procedures is not following them. This normally happens when they are not reviewed on a regular basis to confirm or identify whether they are still practical and helpful. So I see them as a great tool as long as the procedure for review and amendment is in place. 

5. We are a committee driven church. How comfortable are your working with different committees? Assembling committees?
Including our Corporate Officers, I currently work with seven committees. For the most part, I really enjoy that process because in the best scenario a committee is filled with people who have knowledge, passion, and skills related to a particular area of responsibility. The wisdom and discernment that comes from these groups is invaluable to my role as administrator. At this time, I work with a Personnel Committee given the responsibility of staff evaluation, compensation, and policy and procedure. I work closely with a Finance Committee which has the responsibility of maintaining cash reserves, creating and monitoring an annual ministry budget, and the administration of several donor restricted funds. In conjunction with our Pastor, I work with a Missions Committee which has the responsibility to plan and execute mission activities using church designated and donor restricted funds. I work with a Transportation Committee which has the responsibility to keep our vehicles registered, maintained and ready for use. I work with a Properties Committee which has the responsibility of identifying safety issues and maintenance concerns, and planning for contingencies related to the facilities. 
In my current role, I do not assemble committees. We actually have a Committee of Committees that assembles our committees. In general, this works, but I will say that at times I have seen Committees assembled with people who are new to the church. The idea was that this might help the new member get connected or engaged. I don't think this is a good practice. In some cases, people who had no applicable experience or knowledge were put on committees. In my opinion, this weakens the committee and and potentially frustrates the committee member. 

6. We have a superintendent for our facilities. What is your knowledge of and comfort level with overseeing building management?
In working with our Properties Committee, I have been involved with several aspects of building management including maintenance and replacement of HVAC systems, hydraulic and cable elevator systems, water penetration and roofing solutions, masonry repair and tuckpointing, security and surveillance, asbestos abatement, paving and landscaping. I have had the privilege of working with two very capable building superintendents. I learned a lot from them and together we have steadily addressed areas of concern and improved the facilities. I have certainly enjoyed this part of my responsibilities. 

7. We have a financial director and staff. What do you see as your daily interaction with this staff?
Making sure that everyone is aware of goals and responsibilities. Helping develop skills related to financial and accounting procedures. . I would handle the supervision, management, and development of that staff. 

8. How would a subordinate describe your leadership style?
Encouraging and supportive. Pushing towards incremental improvement. 

