# Romans 3:1-8

Paul is moving toward his conclusion: no one will be declared righteous in God's sight by observing the law (Romans 3.20).

- He recognizes that his readers (especially Jewish) will have some objections.
- He has a Question & Answer session with his readers.

> 1 Then what **advantage** has the **Jew**? Or what is the **benefit** of **circumcision**? 

Paul are you saying there is no advantage to biblical religion?


> 2 **Great** in every respect. **First** of all, that they were entrusted with the **oracles of God**. 

No. I'm not saying that. There is great value in having and knowing the words of God.


> 3 What then? If some did not believe, their **unbelief will not nullify** the **faithfulness** of God, will it? 

Yes, but those words have failed, haven't they, b


> 4 **May it never be**! Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar, as it is written,
>  “THAT THOU MIGHTEST BE JUSTIFIED IN THY WORDS,
>  AND MIGHTEST PREVAIL WHEN THOU ART JUDGED.”




> 5 But if our **unrighteousness demonstrates** the **righteousness** of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is He? (I am speaking in human terms.) 




> 6 **May it never be**! For otherwise how will God judge the world? 7 But if through my lie the truth of God abounded to His glory, why am I also still being judged as a sinner? 8 And why not say (as we are slanderously reported and as some affirm that we say), “**Let us do evil** that good may come”? Their condemnation is just.


