# Romans 2.17-29

> For not the hearers of the Law are just before God, but doers of the Law will be justified. | Romans 2.13

## Proud to be a Jew

> 17 But **if you** bear the **name “Jew,”** and **rely upon the Law**, and **boast in God**, 18 and **know His will**, and **approve the things that are essential**, being **instructed out of the Law**, 

**But if you**. a conditional; Paul uses diatribe to examine Jewish assumptions; don't assume you are okay

**bear the name “Jew”**. proud of heritage; two things Jews are proud of: *circumcision and the Law*;

**rely upon Law**. having and knowing the Law of God revealed to Moses; given to the Jews

**boast in God**. chosen people; proud (bragging) of a special relationship to God

**know His will**. understanding right and wrong; able to make correct ethical decisions

**approve things essential**. knowing what is most important; following detailed rules and regulations

**instructed out of the Law**. educated as to character of God; morally decent

*What problem is Paul pointing out in the Jews?* 

The problem is using (RELYING ON) the Law as the way to eternal life—it leads to death. You can't rely on morality for salvation.

They are moralist. A moralist brags about the things they have done; they compare themselves to others.

*Are we moralist?*

I memorize scripture. I study the Bible. I have strong feelings during worship. I'm better than those folks.


> 19 and are **confident** that you yourself are a **guide to the blind**, a light to those who are **in darkness**, 20 a **corrector of the foolish**, a **teacher of the immature**, having in the Law the **embodiment of knowledge** and of the truth, 

**confident**. convinced; persuaded

**guide to blind**. they can see what others cannot

**light to those in darkness**. guiding evildoers from moral darkness to right conduct

**corrector of foolish**. reproving those with a lack of sense or judgment

**teacher of immature**. instructing the simple-minded, unlearned (infants)

**embodiment of truth**. in the Law a form (outline) of knowledge and truth

## Practice what you preach!

*Do you have an empty faith?* 

You might if… 

- you love the concepts of truth, but are not changed by them.
- you look down on others who fail as you do.
- you are defensive when others point our your problems to you.


> 21 you, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one should not steal, do you steal? 

> 22 You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? 

**you who teach**. you have knowledge so that you can show others

**do you not**. the more you know, the more you should apply—*Does this apply to me? This is me!*

Paul is saying the Jew is not practicing what they preach. How?

**do you steal**. fraud at work (Sandy Jenkins) or front pocket money

**commit adultery**. a deacon has an affair or lust in your heart (I didn't sleep with anyone who isn't my spouse)

**rob temples**. take idols from temples and sell them to others; worship other idols (career, sex, reputation, or religiosity)

## Why moralism causes blasphemy


> 23 You who boast in the Law, through your breaking the Law, do you dishonor God? 

> 24 For “THE NAME OF GOD IS BLASPHEMED AMONG THE GENTILES BECAUSE OF YOU,” just as it is written. 

**boast in the Law**. smug (I am a good person), over-sensitive (don't judge or question me), judgmental (let me tell you how you are worse than me), anxious (have I done enough); religiosity has no power to remove selfishness, lust, envy, anger, pride, or anxiety

**through breaking**. generally, you are the only one who doesn't see what you are doing

**dishonor God**. YES—rather than being a living advertisement for God, I am a KEEP AWAY sign

**blasphemed among Gentiles**. legalism is distasteful to those outside the faith; your religion is unattractive

The fatal weakness of moralism…

- it cannot prevent the heart from sinning
- it can only seek to hide the sin
- it dishonors God

## Dead Orthodoxy

> 25 For indeed circumcision is of value, if you practice the Law; but if you are a transgressor of the Law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. 26 If therefore the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the Law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? 

**circumcision**. the great cultural marker of God's covenant with Abraham

- British >> Anglican; Italian >> Catholic; Greek >> Orthodox; Arabian >> Muslim; Texan >> Baptist
- they say—if you think I need more it is insulting to my culture and country

**practice the Law**. marker only counts if there is real change

**transgressor of** **Law**. thinking I get a pass because I have the marker

**uncircumcision**. the marker is really not valid; you have an grasp of the gospel, but no internal revolution

**uncircumcision → circumcision**. it's better to be an unbaptized believer than a baptized unbeliever

*What gives us religious comfort?*

- Legalistic—sound doctrine
- Sacerdotal—rituals and traditions
- Power Church—miracles, spectacular works, emotional experiences


> 27 And will not he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the Law, will he not judge you who though having the letter of the Law and circumcision are a transgressor of the Law? 

**will he not judge**.

**transgressor of the Law**.

## Christians have been circumcised


> 28 For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. 29 But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his praise is not from men, but from God.

**outwardly**. None of us want to discover on the last day that we were, in truth, moralist—orthodox in theology and worship, but dead in spirituality.

**circumcision of heart**. the real important marker—by the Spirit, not by the letter

**but from God**. even though we normally seek that of men

*Why circumcision?*

> I am God Almighty; Walk before Me, and be blameless. 
> And I will establish My covenant between Me and you, And I will multiply you exceedingly. | Genesis 17.1-2 

Circumcision is a visual sign of the penalty for breaking covenant. In ancient times, you didn't sign your name to bind a deal, you acted out the curse that you would accept if you broke the covenant.

For example…

- A man might pick up sand and drop it on his head—If I break the promise I have made, may I become as this dust.
- He might cut and animal in half—may I be torn asunder if I break my agreement.
- In circumcision—may I be cut off