# Romans 5.1-11

## Results of Justification

Up to this point, the focus has been on the power of the gospel to put people who are locked up in sin and facing God's wrath into a right relationship with God. Through the preaching of the gospel God invites all people to believe in Christ and enter into his new relationship.

Now, Paul turns his attention to what comes after one's justification by faith. Two matter in particular…

- the certainty we can have that our justification will lead to final salvation—assurance (v 5.1-11 & 8.18-39)
- the power God gives us in our struggle against sin and the law.

This passage looks at several different topics…

- reconciliation/peace with God
- access to grace—transition to hope
- hope in the glory of God
- joy in suffering—spur to hope
- God's love for us—root of hope
- **focal point**—hope for final salvation

### Being Justified Means We Have Peace and Hope

> 1 Therefore having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
>
> 2 through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand; and we exult in hope of the glory of God. 
>
> 3 And not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance; 
>
> 4 and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope; 
>
> 5 and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. 
>
> 6 For while we were still helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. 
>
> 7 For one will hardly die for a righteous man; though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die. 
>
> 8 But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. 
>
> 9 Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through Him. 
>
> 10 For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. 
>
> 11 And not only this, but we also exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.

### 5:1-8 The benefits of justification we have now

#### Their description…

v 1 Peace with God 

v 2a Access to grace in which we stand 

v 2b Hope of glory 

v 3a Joy within suffering 

#### Their growth: through suffering 

v 3b Suffering makes the justified person more single-mindedly persistent 

v 4a Single-minded persistence produces confidence 

#### Their growth: through experience of God 

v 4b This all leads to growth in our hope… 

v 5 … which deepens through experience of God’s love through the Spirit 

#### Their source 

v 6 Christ died when we had no merit

v 7 The most loving person would not die for an evil person, but… 

v 8 … that is exactly what Christ did 

### 5:9-11 The benefits of justification we will have later 

v 9 If Christ died for us, he can “keep us saved” even through the judgment day. 

v 10a For if he died for us when we were his enemies, shall he do less for us as his friends? 

v 10b And if he saved us in dying, surely he will keep us safe as he now is living 

v 11 So we rejoice now in light of the future 

