# Romans 3.1-20

Paul responds to some views or thinking that might be in opposition to his own.

> 1 Then what **advantage** has the **Jew**? Or what is the **benefit** of **circumcision**? 

**what advantage**. Paul anticipates the questions he's raised with his Jewish readers: What advantage is there in being a Jew?

His arguments in Romans 2 give the impression that the privileges of the Jews are revoked. So I want to answer (as his Gentile readers): NONE. There is no advantage. 

**benefit of circumcision**. What's the point of circumcision? Did you forget that God instituted this practice with Abraham?

> 2 **Great** in every respect. **First** of all, that they were entrusted with the **oracles of God**. 

**Great**. Paul surprises us—don't draw your conclusions too quickly. True—the privilege of the Jews give them no ultimate advantage when it comes to judgment—God will assess everyone on the basis of what they have done.

There was a common Jewish belief that God's righteousness, his covenant faithfulness gave the Jews virtual immunity from judgment.

**First**. there is no second; perhaps he means most important; or he just gets sidetracked.

**oracles of God**. knowing God's word; they were given the very words of God; this is a double-edged sword—God's word promises blessing for obedience, but it also warns about the curse that will fall on disobedience.

> 3 What then? If some did not believe, their **unbelief will not nullify** the **faithfulness** of God, will it? 


> 4 **May it never be**! Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar, as it is written,
>  “THAT THOU MIGHTEST BE JUSTIFIED IN THY WORDS,
>  AND MIGHTEST PREVAIL WHEN THOU ART JUDGED.”

**unbelief will not nullify**. question: if Jews have a lack of faith (not meaning they don't believe, but rather that they fail to satisfy covenant obligations) and God resorts to judgment; doesn't this take away from His faithfulness

**may it never be**. wrong—God is right and correct in everything He does; He always holds up his end of the bargain

**as it is written**. quote of David (Psalm 51: after he was caught in sin with Bathsheba)—I deserve judgment and God is righteous in his punishment; God is fair—faithful means doing good things for his people but also punishin


> 5 But if our **unrighteousness demonstrates** the **righteousness** of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is He? (I am speaking in human terms.) 

**God who inflicts wrath**. Jews must remember that the holy character of God requires him to respond to sin with wrath.


> 6 **May it never be**! For otherwise how will God judge the world? 7 But if through my lie the truth of God abounded to His glory, why am I also still being judged as a sinner? 8 And why not say (as we are slanderously reported and as some affirm that we say), “**Let us do evil** that good may come”? Their condemnation is just.

**through my lie**. is it fair for God to condemn Jews for acts that enhance His glory—His mercy 

**let us do evil**. we might as well take the view that any act is justified (crucifixion) so long as it brings good or glory in the end.

**condemnation is just**. NO—that's poor logic—some think Paul supports that, but he doesn't


> 9 What then? Are we better than they? Not at all; for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin; 10 as it is written,
>  “THERE IS NONE RIGHTEOUS, NOT EVEN ONE;




> 11 THERE IS NONE WHO UNDERSTANDS,
>  THERE IS NONE WHO SEEKS FOR GOD;




> 12 ALL HAVE TURNED ASIDE, TOGETHER THEY HAVE BECOME USELESS;
>  THERE IS NONE WHO DOES GOOD,
>  THERE IS NOT EVEN ONE.”




> 13 “THEIR THROAT IS AN OPEN GRAVE,
>  WITH THEIR TONGUES THEY KEEP DECEIVING,”
>  “THE POISON OF ASPS IS UNDER THEIR LIPS”;




> 14 “WHOSE MOUTH IS FULL OF CURSING AND BITTERNESS”;




> 15 “THEIR FEET ARE SWIFT TO SHED BLOOD,




> 16 DESTRUCTION AND MISERY ARE IN THEIR PATHS,




> 17 AND THE PATH OF PEACE HAVE THEY NOT KNOWN.”




> 18 “THERE IS NO FEAR OF GOD BEFORE THEIR EYES.”




> 19 Now we know that whatever the Law says, **it speaks** to those who are **under the Law**, that every **mouth may be closed**, and all the world may become **accountable to God**; 20 because **by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified** in His sight; for through the Law comes the **knowledge of sin**.


